Arab leaders have gathered in Saudi
Arabia for an emergency Summit on Gaza
Palestinian president mmud Abbas has
said his people face a genocidal war and
want International protection Arab
nations are expected to issue a joint
call for an end to Israel's bombardment
of Gaza the leaders of Syria and Iran
are among those also
attending I'd like to welcome now uh
Georgio cafiero CEO of Gulf State
analytics a Washington DC based
geopolitical risk consultancy uh sir
this is supposed to be an emergency
meeting but it's happening well over a
month into the war so why
now well is the humanitarian disasters
in Gaza worsen by the minute and now in
Gaza the death toll has as of yesterday
surpassed 11,000 it's very clear that
this conflict is prolonging and and
anger all over the Arab Islamic world is
intensifying and pressure is more and
more pressure is coming down on
governments of all these different
countries in the Arab and Islamic world
to take some action and I think the
summit in Saudi Arabia today highlighted
this can we expect any real outcome from
this emergency meeting of Arab and
Muslim
states
I am somewhat pessimistic while I think
it was important for these countries to
come together and to give a unified call
for a ceasefire and for humanitarian Aid
to Gaza the fact of the matter is that
as long as Israel is receiving support
from the United States it will be able
to continue uh this monstrous bombing
campaign of Gaza which as I said a
moment ago has resulted in over 11,000
uh deaths in the besieged enclave and
I'm not so sure that these Arab and
Muslim majority countries have the
leverage that would be necessary to
incentivize Israel to stop there are of
course cards that could play uh when it
comes to oil Investments economic ties
with the United States but I don't
imagine these countries playing those
cards to try to Leverage The try to
leverage their influence to pressure the
us into pressuring Israel I I don't
expect that to happen I think this is a
little bit more about rhetoric than
action
unfortunately Giorgio as you surely know
there has been many discussions at this
point about other actors in the region
getting involved uh much more deeply
than they already are in this conflict
How likely is that to
happen we can say that the longer that
this crisis PR belongs the greater risk
there is that the conflict and the
violence will spill over into more parts
of the Middle East possibly into Africa
and so that's a very real concern and
when people talk about the need for a
ceasefire it's important to keep in mind
what's at stake if there is not a
ceasefire in Washington and many Western
capitals there are very grave concerns
about the possibility of Iran getting
more involved
I think that's certainly possible but
also I think from tan we've seen quite a
bit of restraint I think the Iranians
know that there is quite a bit for their
country to lose if it would have uh some
sort of direct allout war with Israel so
I think the Iranians have certainly been
cautious but to repeat the longer that
this conflict prolongs in Gaza there is
a higher chance of more countries such
such as Iran and also non-state actors
that are tied to Iran such as the
houthis and Yemen getting more
involved the US said uh the Palestinian
Authority should have a role in Gaza and
the occupied West Bank when the fighting
stops is that something the Arab states
would
welcome I think in the region there's a
lot of skepticism about that idea we
know that Palestinian Authority is seen
by many Palestinians and many throughout
the region as being um just basically
partners of the Israeli
occupation the Palestinians do not
really see this body as having much
legitimacy and I think it would have
many problems if it were to be installed
in Gaza I think among Arab Statesmen
there's kind of a view that they want to
not bear respon responsibility for what
is going on in Gaza and additionally
this talk of having Arab forces on the
ground in Gaza I think that's something
that Arab states are going to be very
opposed to and will do everything they
can uh to refuse any plan such as that
our thanks to Giorgio cafiero CEO of
Gulf State
analytics appreciate it thank
you European leaders have ALS o been
speaking about the conflict France's
president Emanuel mcon has called for
ceasefire to ease the suffering of
civilians in Gaza the German Chancellor
Olaf Schultz urged Israel to abide by
the rules of War but also said it's
important Hamas be
defeated it's necessary for us to show
solidarity with Israel after the
barbaric Hamas
attacks for us to mutually ensure that
Israel of of course sticks to the rules
and the way in which it defends
itself and that is how we see
it and at the same time we make sure
that humanitarian Aid can reach Gaza for
that to happen there can and must be
pauses that make it possible for the
injured to leave
Gaza but at the same time it is also
right that Israel succeeds in defeating
Hamas as they would otherwise only
continue where they left off with the
barbaric attacks on children and the
elderly in
Israel staying with Germany's role in
the Middle East crisis a German foreign
minister is in rala to meet with
Palestinian leaders and Elena burbach
will also hold talks with her Israeli
counterpart Eli Cohen in tviv later this
evening the trip comes on the heels of a
meeting with Gulf State leaders
including the United Arab Emirates Saudi
Arabia and qat barbach discussed efforts
to free German hostages being held by
Hamas as well as the humanitarian crisis
in Gaza this is her third visit to the
region since the October 7 Terror
attacks because the Americans came
with let's go back to DW special
correspondent Aya Ibraham in Jerusalem
Aya the German foreign minister is
talking to Palestinian officials right
now we understand how positive a sign is
it that Palestinians themselves are
being brought into the shuttle diplomacy
revolving around the Gaza
conflict well if we're talking about a
larger more sustainable solution to the
conflict between Israel and the
Palestinians I think there's Now
recognition that it won't be solved
without the involvement of Palestinians
so it's certainly positive that analena
barbach is meeting with officials from
the Palestinian Authority as well
however when it comes to the current
um air strikes War rockets that Hamas is
firing from Gaza into Israel it's it's
not very likely that the people that
analina barbach met with today can help
with that they simply the the the
Palestinian Authority has no control
over the Gaza Strip they are in fact
Rivals of uh uh Hamas and have not had
any control over the strip since 2007
and so that's not really uh you know the
role that she's expected to play with
that visit today however um she we've
also seen how um the US Secretary of
State in a visit to in a recent visit to
the region meet with um with officials
from the Palestinian Authority because
Israel the US European allies have said
that Hamas will no longer cannot be in
control of the Gaza Strip once this
conflict is over and so there are now
questions well can the Palestinian
Authority somehow step in and be part of
a a political future for the Gaza uh
strip as a previous guest mentioned
there's a lot of skepticism around that
the Palestinian Authority is often times
seen as uh weak uh not very effective
and um as also being part of uh the
occupation on uh Palestinians but
certainly they are an important partner
uh at the moment and important for uh
Germany to continue having continue
involving them um in dialogue as you
know we inch Clos closer and closer to
the urgency of that question well what
happens to the ga to the Gaza Strip
after the war what expectations are the
Palestinians likely to have from bearbox
talks and wider diplomacy in the
region there is absolutely no
expectation that Germany alone is going
to be able to solve this it has to be
able to act in concert with European
allies um and uh uh the United States uh
uh as well um however uh Germany is seen
at least among the Palestinians a siding
with uh Israel and uh German officials
have iterated time and time again uh
their support for Israel for its
security for its right to defend itself
and of course its right to exist this is
not a these are by no means
controversial questions uh for uh
Germany or German politicians and so um
it's not expected that Germany alone
will be able to solve this however uh
Germany has promised uh more aid about
50 uh million euros more uh since the
October 7th attack to Palestinians so
Germany also plays a really important
humanitarian role when it comes to
helping the
Palestinians that isya Ibraham in
Jerusalem many thanks
Aya
for more I'm joined Now by DW political
correspondent Thomas Sparrow who's here
in the studio with me Thomas uh what is
German foreign minister barbach hoping
to achieve with this trip there are
immediate goals that Germany and by the
way not only Germany has you will see
German leaders as they've done in the
past speak of humanitarian pauses not
necessarily a ceasefire but pauses in
plural so that humanitarian Aid can
reach Gaza that's one of the sort of
immediate goals that the German foreign
minister has but there are more
long-term or medium-term Solutions and
Alena babok has been speaking of
widening the picture of understanding
what can happen also in the medium to
long term and that's one of the main
reasons why she's also talking to
Palestinian leaders Germany has for a
very long time supported the idea of a
two-state solution and from that
perspective it's important to also
engage in dialogue not only with the
Israelis not only with the Palestinians
but also with wider Partners in the
region and this explains why ala Bok is
now once again traveling to the region
but how much influence does Germany have
I have mentioned it and I agree
wholeheartedly with what she says
because it's not only about Germany
itself having an influence in the region
it's about Germany playing a role as
part of the EU and as part of the wider
International Community so if you ask
specifically what role Germany has
Germany plays a rather minor role in
itself but Germany as part of the wider
European Community does indeed play a
wider role when it comes to achieving
these immediate goals like finding those
humanitarian pauses but also maybe those
medium to longer goals which also
involve the idea of a possible two-state
solution which involve having Israelis
and Palestinians live at peace together
in the region the actors in this
conflict in short see Germany as a big
Force within the European Union
absolutely absolutely that's the case
what has Germany's position been since
the conflict began in fact analena Bok
describes that as a as a dilemma because
Germany has very clearly identified
itself on the side of Israel Germany and
the German government in particular say
they have a special responsibility
towards the security of uh Israel that's
something that they've stated time and
time again yet at the same time and we
heard that earlier from the Chancellor
Olaf Schulz it is becoming more
important for Germany and for other
European countries to also state that
Israel has to abide by the rule by the
rules of war and that essentially means
respecting civilians that essentially
means allowing humanitarian Aid to enter
Gaza so you have these two sides of the
story on the one hand supporting Israel
a very clear support but on the other
one also also making sure that Israel
respects the rules of war in this war so
that is is a rather tricky situation for
the for the German government especially
because the German government really
from the beginning positioned itself in
the side of Israel and Aya already
mentioned that as well this means that
it is necessary also for the German
government to explain that position to
the Palestinians so that's also another
reason why alok is doing this right now
what does the everyday German think
about this particular conflict how
worried are they they are concerned
about the the conflict they are
concerned about the war that's something
that by the way uh several polls have
revealed also Nationwide polls and they
are not only concerned about what's
happening in the region they're also
concerned about possible implications
here in the country here in Germany
because what you're seeing is a lot of
tension here among different sides among
different population groups and you're
also seeing an increase in anti-Semitism
uh here in this country you can imagine
that because of Germany's historical
responsibility because of Germany's uh
interest also in the region any rise in
anti-Semitism is something that caused
cuses a lot of shock and a lot of alarm
so you're clearly seeing that not only
officials not only the government is
trying to make more to deal with that
Rising anti-Semitism but it's also
something that's affecting people in
this country and in fact many have also
said in Nationwide polls that they're
concerned about this increase in
anti-Semitism DW political correspondent
Thomas Sparrow many many thanks and of
course you'll stay with us as we await
hearing from the German foreign
minister